I do not believe that this
would be a complete workshop or
a course, if we did not stop and
talk about testing.
And so we're going to take a moment,
and we're going to talk about
testing within an Angular application and
lay that foundation so
that not only can you create Angular
applications, but you can test them.
So just to start it, the very, very,
very basics when you have
an Angular application and
it's created by the Angular CLI,
or if you use NX dev tools.
The easiest way to run your
test is just go NPM test and
it is going to kick off
the Karma test runner.
And so
this is going to pop up a browser and
it's going to essentially build the app
is gonna run through a bunch of tests.
And so one of the things that they
have done and I believe every major
framework is they've gotten really
good it kind of caching responses,
and the stuff that hasn't changed
then they don't recompile it.
So, you saw that that was very,
very, very quick,
but what we have here is 24
specs with zero failures.
And what Karma does, and by extension,
I believe this might be a jasmine
thing is that they randomize the test.
So that if you have, for some reason,
a test that's dependent on the output of
another test that by randomizing
it that's going to get caught.
And so what you definitely don't
want is to have unintentional
state being carried over
from one test to another.
And so,
I'm going to just exit out of this for
now, and we will close this down, and
we're gonna go back into our code.
And we're going to be working
out of the app component.
And so you'll saw that I just kinda
ripped everything out real quick.
And the reason being is I want
to put this back together.
And I want to talk about why we're
doing the things we're doing
in each part that every kind of
element that we add into this,
or component or mechanism,
what it does and why it is there.
So, if we're going to talk about
Angular testing at the very,
very, very core of this is
the testing module or the testbed.
And so I'm going to create
a before each block and
this is going to be a synchronous.
And the reason why this is
a synchronous is because when you
have your templates and
your component classes separated,
is that those need to be loaded
all at once and then compiled.
And so, typically what you'll have
is a number of before each blocks,
but the initial one is going to be async.
And what that does, is that accommodates
the fact that you have external templates.
So from here testbed, and
we're going to go
configure testing module.
And what this is going to do,
is it's going to create
an Angular module that's very
similar to a real module.
But it allows us to create an environment
for us to load a specific component,
or service or
whatever unit we're testing into a real
Angular environment with
its dependencies etc and
configure it into a running runtime,
that felt weird to say.
All right, so within our testbed
configure testing module,
what we're going to do is we're going
to define something that looks very,
very, very similar to an object that
we pass into a regular angie module.
And so the first thing I wanna do,
declarations and
because we're testing the app component,
we are going to add that in.
And from here,
we can add in our dependency.
So this is typically
the next thing that I do.
And this is one of these things
that sometimes it's kinda
a little bit of trial and
error that you will spin up a test,
you're like ooh that didn't work and
the reason being is because you
forgot to include a dependency.
And so, in this case, I know that I'm
going to need the router testing module.
And so let's leave it at that for now.
So you can get this working and
then we'll build on that.
And then once I've completed that I'm
going to call compile components.
And so what this does, is it assembles
the testing module, it goes and
grabs the components that we need and
it calls compile components.
All right, and then from here,
I am going to,
Add in one test here.
And I'm kind of doing this
off the top of my head,
but let's see how this works.
It should create the app.
All right, and so
what we're gonna do here is, I am going to
Let's do const and
I'm gonna go fixture equals,
and I'll explain what
this is in just a moment.
Createcomponent, I'm going to
pass in the AppComponent and
then I'm going to actually
get the component.
And so the component is going
to be fixture.componentInstance.
And from here, I'm just going to
expect that component
is going to be truthy.
So not true, but truthy, all right?
I'm going to save this, and
we'll go back into our command line and
MPM test for a very, very basic test.
I am creating the fixture and then I
am grabbing the component off of that.
So let me look here.
AppComponent should create the app.
Very good.
So if we go back here,
let me explain what the fixture is.
So, you have your component,
but along with your component
you have a number of elements that
come along with the component itself.
So for instance,
you have your component class, but
then you also have the DOM or
the template that exists
with that component that you
can get access to, if you want.
As well as you have the ability
to grab the component,
but then to also grab the DOM element or
the debug element that is
that comes with that, and
then do query selectors on it and
check the the template.
And let me see here real quick.
If we step in here, and so this is,
I've mentioned this before, but
it's very helpful to be able to, if you're
like, what does this thing actually do?
To just start clicking through, this is
one of I think one of the best things that
exist with TypeScript, is the ability to
kind of click through type definitions and
learn as you're going along.
So I mentioned the debug element.
But you can get a component instance,
the native element,
the element ref, and
the change detector ref.
So there's a lot of things
that you can do here.
For instance, detect changes.
This is important,
we'll talk about that in a moment.
As well as you can check,
is it stable, when is it stable etc.
So the fixture is incredibly helpful.
Now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to extract
these elements right here
out of this particular test,
and I'm going to break this into a new
before each with a slight variation.
So, what I wanna do is because I want
these to be available before each test,
but I don't want to have to
keep instantiating those.
So from here I'm going
to define my component,
lead component, and
this is going to be an AppComponent and
let fixture is going to be
a component fixture that
is going to be associated
with this AppComponent.
And so now,
what I've done is I've just added in
an additional before each,
and I'm able to grab this.
All right, now, I'm going to
make one more addition here and
I'll explain what this
is once I'm done typing.
When you're writing an Angular test,
change detection is not automatic.
The reason being,
is there are circumstances where
you possibly want to validate
a pre change detection
state against a post
change detection state.
And so Angular gives you
the ability to essentially manually
detect change or
kick off that change detection cycle,
and you do that with
fixture.detect changes.
Now, let's extend this a bit more, and
let's write another test and
this is going to be around,
it should have the correct title.
And when you have a component instance,
what you're referencing is
in fact the component class.
And so if you have a property on your
class, then you can test against that.
And so,
what we're gonna do here is we're going to
create a property called title and
I'm just going to go
'Angular 13 fundamentals'.
And from here, what I'm going
to do is go expect(component).
Now watch,
you see the Auto hint here is showing
me the properties that
exist on that component,
the A TypeScript, and we expect
the component title to equal title.
All right, and let's go back in and
see if these are being picked up, and
let me just actually step into this
So I'm able to click on this and so
you can see now we have two test.
Should create the app and
should have the correct title.
All right, now what we're gonna do is I'm
going to introduce the debug element.
And so I'm going to go up here and
we're going to go let D for
debug element, and
this is going to be a debug element.
And inside of our second before each
we're going to go D equals fixture
debug, oops debug element.
There we go.
And now let's write a test against this.
So it should render
An updated title.
Feel like I picked up
an extra parentheses there,
or quote all right, so within this,
what we're going to do is I'm
going to define a new title.
And we're gonna call this angular 20
fundamentals for our spring workshop.
And now let's grab our title element.
And so we have our debug element.
But what we really need to get
is within our template itself
We need to pull in this
particular element right here.
So within the spec, let's go ahead and
go debug element query and
Angular introduced this
pretty handy thing called by.
And what this allows us to do
is essentially select the DOM or
the debug element by various means.
In this case, we're gonna go with CSS, but
I think you can do by directive, by name.,
there's a bunch of different ones
you can use, I typically use CSS.
From here, we are going to
basically grab the title, so
we're going to go through and
we're looking for
anything with a class of title which
in this case happens to only be one.
All right, and so we're going to go
component title equals new title,
and then let's write our assertion.
So our titleElement, nativeElement,
InnerText.
We expect this to be new title.
All right, so
within A test a very common approach and
I don't think about it consciously that
much anymore, but you have a range,
Act and assert.
And so, just for a bit of insight,
if you're not aware of this,
I think this is a really good
way to organize your test.
A lot of people do this you'll
hear it quite frequently, but
what I'm doing here is I'm
basically arranging the pieces for
the test, then I am acting
upon us on doing something and
then I am asserting the result,
is this indeed what I expected to happen.
So I'm gonna save this,
go into our browser and
let's see if this updated.
So you notice here,
expected Angular 13 Fundamentals to be
Angular 20 Fundamentals,
and that was not the case.
Why is that?
Well the reason being is
that if you remember change
detection is manual that
you have to trigger it out.
And so if you are making
a change to the class, and
you need to kick off or
that you need the template for
the component or
testing to update and capture that.
You need to essentially
tell it to detect changes.
So fixture, detect changes,
and now let's save this again.
And let's go back and ta-da, and
that is what I would
consider to be the basic
the most basic fundamental knowledge
set that you need to
write test in Angular.
So you have a component
that you wanna test.
You have a fixture that
contains all of the information
in the contextual information
about that component.
Then you have your debug element,
which then gives you the ability to one
query the template that is
associated with that component.
And when you make changes to
a template and you needed to render or
to the component needed to
render on the template,
this is where you kick off
fixture.detect changes.